In the previous video, we already learn about
the basic command in cisco.
Now in this video, we are going to learn how
to configure an ip address in cisco router.
Okay let’s just start.
Let’s add a PC.
Let’s say we will use 3 pc.
And we will connecting the pc to the switch
and router.
We will connecting this 2 pc to the switch,
from the switch to the router.
And then this pc will be directly connected
to the router.
Okay let’s just start.
Connecting this 2 pc to the switch, and from
the switch to the router.
And finally, connecting the router directly
to the computer.
In the topology like this, pc3 and pc4 will
be in the same block subnet, but pc5 will
be in the different block subnet.
For example, we will use 192.168.1.0/24 for
pc3 and pc4.
And then for pc5, we will use 192.168.2.0/24.
So the ip address of router interface that
connected to pc3 and pc4 will be 192.168.1.1,
the ip address of pc3 will be 192.168.1.2,
and the ip address of pc4 will be 192.168.1.3.
Next, fa0/1, which is the interface that connected
to PC5, the ip address will be 192.168.2.1..
and then the ip address of pc5 will be 192.168.2.2.
Let’s start configuring ip address on the
router.
In the networking basic section, we already
learn how to configure ip address in cisco
router, but we use the config menu.
We just need to click the interface that we
want to configure, turn the interface on,
and then configure the ip address.
But we can not use this method to configure
ip address in the real device.
If we want to configure an ip address in the
real device, we need to type cisco command.
In this case we need to use CLI tab.
Okay, so in this video, I will show you how
we can configure ip address in cisco router
from CLI.
Okay, so here let’s go to cli.
Here let’s exit, and exit again.
Here now we are in the privilege mode.
Let’s go to global configuration mode.
To configure an ip address, first we need
to go to the interface first.
In this case, we are going to configure an
ip address for fa0/0 first.
So here let’s type interface fa0/0.
If you see here, this is the shortened command.
The actual command is interface, but we can
shortened the command become int like this.
Next if we see here, the light colour is still
red, this is means that the interface is still
disabled.
To enable the interface we can use command
no shutdown.
Okay here we can see that now the light is
green.
Now let’s configure the ip address, the
command is ip address 192.168.1.1 and then
the subnetmask, the subnetmask for prefix
/24 is 255.255.255.0.
Okay let’s enter here.
For now we are done configuring the ip address
of fa0/0.
Next let’s configure the ip address of fa0/1.
So interface fa0/1, no shutdown to enable
the interface.
Okay here we can see that the light of the
interface is already green.
Next let’s configure the ip address.
The ip address is 192.168.2.1 and the subnetmask
is 255.255.255.0.
Okay now we have done configuring the ip address
in the router.
For the verification, we can use command do
show ip interface brief.
Here we can see that the ip address of fa0/0
is 192.168.1.1, the status is up.
And the ip address of fa0/1 is 192.168.2.1
and the status is also up.
Next let’s configure the ip address of all
PC. let’s start from pc3.
Go to desktop, ip configuration, the ip address
is 192.168.1.2, the subnetmask is 255.255.255.0,
and the gateway is the router ip address that
connected to pc3, which is 192.168.1.1,
Next let’s configure for pc4, go to desktop,
ip configuration, the ip address is 192.168.1.3,
and the gateway is same as pc3, which is 192.168.1.1.
Okay done for pc4.
For the switch, we don’t need to configure
anything, so we can skip it.
Last let’s configure the ip address of pc5.
Go to desktop, ip configuration, the ip address
is 192.168.2.2, and then the gateway is 192.168.2.1
Okay now we have done configuring IP Address
on all of PC. now let’s try test the connection
using ping, so go to command prompt.
Here we are going to test from pc5 to pc3
first.
So ping 192.168.1.2, okay here we can see
that the first result is timeout, but the
others is success.
This is means that connection between pc5
and pc3 is ok.
Now let’s also test from pc5 to pc4, so
ping 192.168.1.3, okay here we can see that
the result is also successful.
Okay so now we have done configuring ip address
in the cisco router.
And I think enough for this video.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video!